The most important blackjack rule is if blackjack pays 3/2 or 6/5. The 3/2 payout is best for the player. A 6/5 blackjack game has a house edge that is 1.39% higher than the 3/2 payout. 

Players will find 3/2 blackjack all over the locals market and at most downtown casinos. Most Las Vegas Strip casinos deal 3/2 blackjack. However, the minimum bet is usually at least $25. It may be $50 or $100.

3:2 Blackjack table at Green Valley Ranch on January 31, 2024
32 Blackjack table at Green Valley Ranch on January 31 2024 Kristina MehaffeyAdvantage Media
Double down
All live Las Vegas blackjack games allow double down before splitting on any two cards. This means you bet an amount equal to or less than the original wager and receive one card. Traditional blackjack games require the player to stand after a double down. Spanish 21 allows players to hit after doubling down.

Most tables permit double down after splitting. El Cortez’s tables under $25 and most Caesars double-deck games don’t allow double down after splitting. 

There is an odd double down rule at the 3/2 tables at Poker Palace. Players may double down on two or three cards before and after splitting. At Most Liberal 21, Super Fun 21, and Spanish 21, double down is allowed on up to four cards before and after splitting. 

Many Game King blackjack games do not allow double down at all, which increases the house advantage by about 1.5%. This is one of many reasons to avoid those machines. 

Surrender 
Surrender is available at dozens of Las Vegas blackjack tables. It is only allowed at six-deck and eight-deck blackjack games. It is never offered at single-deck or double-deck ones. 

When surrender is available, the player folds and the house takes half the bet. This drops the house edge by 0.07%. Surrender is also offered at some blackjack variants like Spanish 21 and Most Liberal 21.

The proper time to surrender is with 15 against a dealer 10 and 16 versus a nine, ten, or ace, when the house stands on soft 17. When the dealer hits soft 17, add 15 and 17 against an ace.

Re-split aces
Re-split aces means that players can split again when the first split of aces makes another pair. Las Vegas games with this rule permit it up to three times for a total of four hands. Split aces may not be hit, except at variants like Most Liberal 21, Super Fun 21, and Spanish 21. Re-split aces reduces the house advantage by 0.08%. 

All six-deck and eight-deck blackjack games dealt at MGM Resorts and Treasure Island allow re-splitting aces. The high-limit tables at higher-end Caesars Entertainment properties, M Resort, Palms, and Station Casinos also permit this at six-deck games. 

There are a few double-deck tables in Las Vegas that allow aces to be re-split. This includes Station Casinos and M Resort high-limit tables.

Insurance
Insurance is offered when the dealer shows an ace. Players may insure the hand for up to half the original bet amount. If the dealer has blackjack, insurance pays 2/1. If the dealer does not have blackjack, insurance loses. Taking even money on a blackjack when the dealer shows an ace is the same as taking insurance. Even money is not permitted at 6/5 tables. Insurance has a house advantage of about 7%, depending on the number of decks and count.

Hit or stand on soft 17
The dealer hitting or standing on soft 17 is a major blackjack rule. All tables under $50 in Las Vegas hit soft 17. Many high-limit tables stand on it. Most deal six decks. A few MGM Resorts tables, Fontainebleau, Palms and Treasure Island, have this favorable rule at high-limit double-deck tables. The dealer standing on soft 17 drops the house advantage by about 0.2%.

3:2 High Limit Blackjack at Circa Casino
Hit split aces
When a player is dealt two aces, splitting is allowed. As described above, some blackjack tables allow aces to be split again if another is dealt. No standard blackjack tables allow the player to hit after splitting aces. However, Most Liberal 21, Super Fun 21, and Spanish 21 allow players to do this. Both games also let players double down after splitting aces. This reduces the house advantage by 0.2%. 